# CSCI4230-ToyDES
I wrote this assignment in Haskell using the fixed-vector library from Hackage.

I used the fixed-vector package and the DataKinds language extension to implement statically sized bitfields (found in BitVector.hs).  This gave me some extra compile time safety regarding the bit math.  The way it works is the `BitVector` type constructor takes a type level Peano integer (`Nat` defined in `GHC.TypeLits`).  When performing numeric operations (`+`,`*`,`xor`) on `BitVector`s the type system will then check that both sides of the operation have the same length.  When performing operations like `concat` or `split` the system will check that the results are the correct type.  You will get an error for instance in `iterate (lShift *** lShift) . BitVector.split . p10` if `lShift` takes a `BitVector 4` rather than a `BitVector 5`.

There are a couple of problems with my current implementation though.  The first is that the permutations take `[Int]` (a list of ints), which doesn't allow for any of the compile time safety checks.  The second problem is that my current BitVector implementation uses unboxed arrays of booleans rather than a packed bit representation like the C++ `std::vector<bool>` template specialization.  This is ridiculously inefficient, but fixing it should mostly be a matter of modifying the `BitVector` type, the homework specific code in ToyDES would not have to be changed to accommodate this.  Another problem is that Haskell's type inference system can't always disambiguate intermediate results, such as in uses of `backPermute` followed by a polymorphic function.  I resolved this by using the TypeApplications language extension (those are the `@4`, `@10`, etc...) to explicitly specify the intermediate types, but this hurts readability somewhat.

The program can be compiled using `stack build` (entered through the commandline, download [here](https://docs.haskellstack.org/en/stable/install_and_upgrade/)).  Stack will automatically download the dependencies (currently fixed-vector and lens, sorry they're so huge).  I've implemented a file encrypter/decrypter, and started on a chat program that is currently incomplete.  The file encrypter/decrypter can be run with:
```stack exec -- ToyDES-exe mode key inputFile outputFile```
`mode`: either `e` or `d`, which selects either encryption or decryption, respectively.  I'm not error checking this out of laziness.

`key`: an integer 0-1023